# Phoibe

## Summary

Phoibe was one of the Titans and as such sister of Themis. Her name means _pure_, _bright_ and _prophet_. She received control of the Oracle of Delphi from Themis before gifting it to her grandson Apollo. She collects high-level tools for tasks that occur in the data science workflow. Typically, these high-level tools require additional dependencies which are not desired in `ergaleiothiki`.

**Overview**:

- **Quantify terrain complexity at any location and wind transferability.** This toolkit computes the Ruggedness Index (RIX) and wind representability (TRIX) following TR6Rev12. Use it for **site assessments for wind park projects**.
- **Profile and validate machine data.** following a progressive issue detection and transformation approach subdivided into layers for (more than just) scada data.
- **Generate synthetic data.** This includes 2D fields, sample points and messy scada data timeseries.

---

## Architecture

| Package | Subpackage | Purpose |
|---------|------------|---------|
| `geography` |  |  |
|  | `complexity` | Assess of terrain complexity and wind transferability. |
|  | `crs` | Reproject raster data. |
|  | `plot` | Visualise. |
| `layered` |   | Profile and validate data in layers. Prototype. |
| `synthetic_data` |  | Generate 2D-fields and wtg scada data timeseries (including data mess) for demonstration. |

---

## Demonstrations

Notebooks demonstrate how to use certain parts of the package. Their prefixes mean:

| Prefix | Contents |
|--------|----------|
| `00-` | Purely experimental code w/o any guarantee, i.e. fun with something. |
| `01-` | Introduction to and demonstration of package functionality. As such comes with explanations. |
| `02-` | Examples of package behaviour with edge cases. |

<!--### Guidelines-->

---

## Setup

**Prerequisites:** Python 3.13 and uv.

**Install environment:** `make install`.

---

## Observed code sweets and sours

### How to ... use the package

<!--Currently, the package is registered in a locally hosted registry. This works on my computer. To run examples, adjust `pyproject.toml` to receive the dependency _ergaleiothiki_ directly from github, and remove the source _nemea-index_.

An alternative is to download the _ergaleiothiki_ along with _phoibe_, set the path of the former in `pyproject.toml` accordingly, and remove the source.-->

### How to ... register new package versions

1. Tag the package _from main_:

```bash
git tag -a <version> -m "<message>"
git push origin <version>
```

2. Build the package from this tag.

```bash
uv build
```

3. Publish to the private server. A simple `cp` does the same job.

```bash
pypi-server run -p 8080 packages/ -P . -a . --overwrite
uv publish --publish-url http://localhost:8080/ --username "" --password ""
```

**Remarks:**

- If the package seems unnecessarily huge, review `.gitignore`.
- Index files are handled generated by the pypi server.

### How to ... register new package versions (obsolete Poetry version)

1. Tag the package _from main_:

```bash
git tag -a <version> -m "<message>"
git push origin <version>
```

2. Build the package from this tag.

```bash
poetry build
```

3. Move files to `nemea-index/docs/simple/\<package\>/\<version\>/.
4. Update index files.
5. [Possibly obsolete] Side effect: **Poetry** uses a package that bugs this tagging. Ensure to configure:

```bash
poetry config system-git-client true
```

### Testing

1. `rioxarray` registers the `.rio` accessor to `xarray` globally as soon it is imported somewhere.
   - _Consequence:_ Tests relying on no `.rio` present explicitly break when executed together.
   - _Unsolution:_ 
   - _Solution:_
     1. Separate execution w/ pytest marks: Rio mark registered in `pyproject.toml`, rio modules marked.
     1. Import _inside fixtures_ that require `.rio` -- module level imports keep on breaking.

### Environment

<!--
1. `netcdf4`: The update from `1.7.2` to `1.7.3` made reading `netcdf` files more rigorous causing troubles reading own `netcdf` files. Solve this issue for allowing further updates.
-->

### Linting

1. `@typing.overload`:
   - `mypy` does not distinguish between `np.array` and `pd.DataFrame`, but `mypy` needs a subclassing hierarchy. Resolve (ignore) by `# type: ignore[overload-cannot-match]` at subsequent overloads.
   - `mypy` does not distingiush between `pd.Series` and `pd.DataFrame`. If static types are not that relevant, use `PANDA = typing.TypeVar("PANDA", pd.Series, pd.DataFrame)`.
   - `flake8` does not like ellipses on the same line as the function definition. Resolve (ignore) by `# noqa: E704`. Needs to follow `mypy` ignores.
2. Function signature not correctly identified by `mypy`. Resolve (ignore) by `# type: ignore [call-arg]`.
3. `docsig`: To skip checks on docstrings _temporarily_, use the directive `# docsig: disable`.
4. Slices: `flake8` mentions `E203 whitespace before ':'`, which `black` enforces according to PEP8.
   - Inline: `# noqa: E203`.
   - `pyproject.toml`: `ignore = E203`? Todo: Find general solution.

## Structure package

### Package

1. Circular imports:
   - Functions that are used package internally in e.g. fundamental objects _and_ externally may easily create circular imports. Avoid by:
     - Creating private functions that carry the domain logic but rely on native Python objects in private modules.
     - Letting higher-level objects rely on the private functions.
     - Creating public functions that consume higher-level objects, and call the related private function.
   - Example: `perdix.LocationGCSFactory` and `atlas._earth._compute_square_around_center`.

### Objects

1. Avoid overloading objects. Differentiate jobs of representing something and jobs of doing something, see e.g. RIX.
